[men counting cadence]
Hep, hup! Hep, hup!
(Jimmy)
'Swabbie's got a head
like a '49 Ford, Max.'
(Max)
'Come on, Tully.
Last round.'
You gotta knock
this anchor-clanker
out!
'You just got to
wear him down, Tully.'
'You're a Marine, okay?'
Come on,
Tully.
Let's go.
Listen up, Marines!
Shore leave
commences at 1300.
As Marines, you will
conduct yourself
with honor, valor,
and fidelity.
Outstanding job,
PFC Tully.
Private First Class Snow,
what in Sam Hill is this?
Sir, it won't
stay
bloused, sir!
It won't stay bloused
because you do not belong
'in my beloved Corps!'
I suggest you unscrew
yourself ASAP!
Well, any day, sweetheart!
Sir, yes, sir!
PFC Tully, tell me
why I should not cancel
liberty
for all hands because of PFC
Snowball's personal appearance?
Sir, PFC Snow will
square himself
away!
Marines take care of their
own!
That is our code, Sergeant!
Outstanding answer,
PFC Tully!
Stand by!
Platoon, dismissed!
(soldiers)
Aye, aye, Sergeant!
- Do it!
- Ooh-rah!
Whoo!
(John)
'I love the smell of toxic
waste
in the morning.'
Hey, you wanna watch
your step.
The place is full of stuff
that'll eat your
Florsheims for
breakfast.
(John)
'Oh, what do we have?'
(Lilly)
'A land test
on a real estate deal'
turned up toxic
levels
of you-name-it.
EPA clean-up crew found
the remains inside.
(Scotty)
It was adult male
shot in the head.
ME tech ballparks it
at .38 caliber.
How long has it been here?
Agency says the
land
hasn't been used
as a legal dump
site
in over 50 years.
(John)
'We need to find out
who had access'
'permission to
dump here.'
Yeah, ought to be fun.
'EPA's lawyers have been
trying
to sort that out for years.'
(Lilly)
'What's that? Dog tags?'
"Tully, James, C. USMC."
Looks like we just found
a lost Marine.
(John)
'Marine Private Class
James C. Tully.'
Accused of desertion,
September 9, 1951.
Stationed
Pronto
on his way
to do battle in Korea.
The forgotten war.
Disappeared during liberty.
He was supposed to be
Pronto
morning of September
9,
at 0600 hours.
He never showed.
(Will)
'I think we know why.'
(Lilly)
'The kid was only 17 years
old.'
'Got into some kind of trouble.'
(Will)
'On liberty,
that's no surprise.'
Drinking, shenanigans.
Yeah, the last hoorah.
Trying to get in as much
living as possible.
Pretty high
casualty rate in Korea.
Maybe he gets
cold feet?
Ah, not likely.
Marines aren't drafted.
They enlist or volunteer.
Docks have always been
a dangerous place.
He gets separated
from his fellow
Marines
and runs into
some
local riff-raff?
The guys in his platoon
might know something.
Yeah, if we can
track them down.
Well, brother Steve
Tully's
on his way to Philly
to claim the remains.
A decorated Marine
in Vietnam himself.
The father served
in World War II.
Whole family
of military men.
Ah, must have been
a real disgrace
Tully accused
of being a deserter.
The family
never believed it.
Sent the Naval Board
of Corrections
countless letters refuting the
unauthorized absence charge..
...to no avail.
Trying to reverse
a charge like that
with the military bureaucracy
is like getting a
battleship
to reverse course
slow and unlikely to happen.
It's our job to see this
Marine
gets his honor back.
(Will)
'Hey, what the..
My tie!'
That's for aiding
and abetting
in a decapitation
of my best tie last week.
What makes you think
I had anything
to do with that...incident?
Oh, don't worry, your little
partner in crime, La Bamba..
...he's gonna get his, too.
What up, fellas?
You tell me, Scotty.
My father went
to his grave
wondering if Jimmy was a coward.
He fought the
desertion
ruling.
He must have known
different in his heart.
Said it wasn't
in Jimmy's DNA to desert.
But he still wanted
the flag to prove it.
My brother never backed down
from a fight in his life.
(Lilly)
'Wondering if you
can tell us anything'
about Jimmy might help us
with our investigation.
Oh, yeah. Brought this..
...postcard he sent us.
It's the last time
we heard from him.
"Our sergeant granted
us
a liberty pass.
'"Me and a couple guys
from the platoon'
"are gonna hit the town."
You know who his friends were?
No, I was just a kid
when he left for boot camp.
Gave me his baseball glove.
Told me to keep it oiled
for him.
Promised to teach me
his curve ball when he got
back.
Card's postmarked
the day he disappeared.
I slept with it
under my pillow for years
just thinking it
would bring him back.
What about his pocket watch?
Didn't they find it
with his, you know..
Pocket watch? No.
Oh, it definitely would
have been on him.
He treasured that watch.
Robbery gone bad?
My father told him
it was his duty
to bring the watch back safe
and pass it on
to his own son someday.
Never even made it
out of Philly.
(Will)
'Sergeant Chaney, they said
we could find you here.'
I volunteer twice a week
and school some of these men
in checkers,
just to let them know
that their sacrifice
still means something.
Oh, wondering
what you remember
about Private
First Class Jimmy Tully.
One of nine guys that went
to Korea came back
in a body bag,
and you're asking me
about a coward
that went AWOL?
You were his
platoon sergeant, right?
- Mm-hmm.
- That type of behavior fit?
Well, the kid
was a hell of a
boxer.
He beat the tar out
of the Navy's best
puncher
the day of shore leave but
there's a hell of a
difference
between taking a punch
and staring down enemy fire.
His body turned up yesterday.
We think he got
killed
on shore leave.
'Anyone in his platoon
have a problem with him?'
Whoa! If Tully was killed
it wasn't by another Marine.
Any idea which of his friends
he might have hit Philly with?
Yeah, there was a
guy
named Max, um..
...Max Heid,
Heidhorn.
Heidhorn, yeah.
He was a real clown.
We'll look into it.
Hey, detectives..
...if a guy doesn't come
back to the ship
I have no other choice
'but to declare
him a deserter.'
Max Heidhorn?
Detectives Rush,
Miller.
'Thanks for coming in.'
A fan of the ponies?
I like to lay a few bets
here and there,
keep things interesting.
- You got a system?
- Yeah.
It's called
"Win some, lose some."
'But you didn't
ask me down here'
to pick up tips
on the sport of kings.
Understand you
and Jimmy Tully were friends.
Sure were. We survived
boot camp together.
Were you with him
on shore leave?
Me and about 500
other Marines and sailors.
When's the last time
you saw him?
[sighs]
That'd be hard to forget.
(Max)
'Hey, Tully, get in line.'
Alright, come on,
I'm buying.
Get an anchor and globe or,
uh,
maybe one of them hula girls.
(Jimmy)
'I ain't got
time, Max.'
Those Navy squids don't
do
so well on land.
I'll say.
Valentine red.
Color of your lips.
Thanks.
I've gotta dash.
Hey, Tully, what the hell
you gawking at?
See that?
Yeah, I sure did.
'Another barnacle looking
to latch onto some sailor.'
'Man, the girls I told
you about at this place'
do a whole lot more
than just look, baby.
'You coming?'
What, are you kidding?
Just met the girl of my dreams.
Hey, anybody want to see
the Liberty Bell with me?
Yeah. Dumbbell
meets Liberty Bell.
Take it easy on the kid, Max.
You know, good thing
you got old Tully here
always sticking up
for you, Snowball.
Maybe he can, um, chaperone
your little sightseeing tour.
(Jimmy)
'I'm going across the
street.'
Hey, no, no,
that's a Navy bar.
Karnow's got to be sore
about you beating him.
Yeah, well, I beat him
fair and square.
Where I'm going,
at least you won't have
to fight sailors off
just to get a dance.
You know where
to find me, punchy.
Roger that, devil dog.
Tattoo was the last thing
I remember about shore leave.
Almost didn't make it back
to the ship due to the
whiskey..
...and a redheaded girl.
This Karnow,
he and Tully have a history?
"Mean Gene" Karnow.
Tully gave that bastard
a really good pasting
at a smoker right before
we got our liberty passes.
Fight over what?
Boxing match over
bragging rights.
Tully always took
Semper Fi
"always faithful"
business seriously.
Me, on the other hand..
Karnow the type
to hold a
grudge?
Well, first off,
he was a Swabbie.
No love lost
between Marines and sailors.
(Nick)
'Gene Karnow?'
Easy. Take it
easy
there, Dragnet.
You guys looking for lessons?
We're here
about Jimmy
Tully.
- What's he want, a rematch?
- He's dead.
Killed on shore leave,
the night he knocked you out.
How'd that happen?
We were just about to ask you
the same question.
You think I killed
him
because he got
over a few lucky punches?
So no hard feelings
between you and
Tully?
Hell, that match with
Tully
and me on board ship
but, that was my last fight.
Boiler blew up
on the way to
Korea
and drove a six-inch piece
of steel into my shoulder.
Jab wasn't much good
after that.
- You see Tully that night?
- Yeah.
[chuckles]
Sure.
Guy had brass ones,
walking into a Navy
bar.
You got lucky, jarhead.
- I don't want any trouble.
- Yeah, what do you want
then?
A dance.
Good luck and goodnight.
She's shot down every sailor
in here including yours truly.
I'll take my chances.
You lost this.
"Brown, Sanford and
Mullins
Attorneys at Law."
So which one are you?
I'm just a stenographer
right now.
Tomorrow's my first
day on the job.
But someday I'm gonna have
my own card just like that.
I'd offer to buy you a
drink
but it looks like you're
doing
just fine in
that
department.
You wanna buy me a drink,
you gotta get in line.
The sailor at the
end
of the bar says
you're the
toughest
thing in here.
Think he might've been right.
I thought Marines
were supposed to be brave.
Well, a good
Marine
must improvise
adapt and overcome.
Is that why
you're in a Navy bar?
The one thing I swore I'd
do
before I shipped off
was dance
with a pretty
girl.
- Is that where I come in?
- Affirmative.
Alright, but I don't dance
with strangers.
Jimmy Tully,
Wilkes Barre,
Pennsylvania.
Nora Lee,
Philadelphia born and bred.
Miss Nora Lee
from Philadelphia, born and
bred
would you care to dance?
Why don't you drop
anchor
someplace else?
You got a problem, pal?
Besides you guys
taking over our
bars
and bird-dogging our women?
Not tonight.
You better have a lot of
bullets
in that gun, civilian.
(Ray)
Get off me.
Never thought I'd be
defending a jarhead's
right
to dance with the
prettiest
girl in the bar.
This tough guy,
he got a name?
Nah, didn't bother asking.
Introduced him
to the sidewalk pretty
good.
Well, maybe he waited
around outside for
Tully.
I couldn't tell
you,
because the second
prettiest girl in
the bar
was so impressed
with my bravery,
she asked me to dance.
Been together 55 years.
You remember anything else
about this guy?
Yeah, had a dock workers'
union patch on his jacket.
That's a funny
thing to remember.
I was a snipe, you
know,
an engine room rat.
I had to deal with sand
crabs
like that all the time.
Thanks for your time.
You know,
if you ever want some
lessons
come on down
and we'll lace 'em up,
okay?
My partner needs
more than that.
You're what, 50 push-ups
from the cover of GQ?
I wouldn't be so sure
about that, big fella.
I could teach him
something that'd wipe
that smirk right off
your face.
Oh, no offense,
detective. Sorry.
Come on, come on..
Come on. Let's go
(Lilly)
'Gunwale, your old haunt?'
(John)
Navy bar, tied
a few on here.
Some things never change.
I'll bet she still remembers
what I drink.
John, long time no see.
Irish whiskey and a beer back?
(John)
'Nah, on duty.'
- This is Detective Rush.
- 'Hey.'
We're wondering
if you remember Jimmy Tully.
Marine back in '51.
I'm good, sugar,
but I'm not that
good.
Witness said he had words over
a girl with a local tough guy.
In the Gunwale?
Imagine that.
That tough guy wore
a dock workers' union patch
on his jacket.
Flashed a gun.
Could be Ray Lisi.
'Hall of fame jackass.'
86'd him from the Gunwale,
over a decade ago.
He ever do time?
He did a good stretch
at Frackville
for beating a union scab.
The guy's sucking his meals
down
through a straw now.
Where's Lisi
park at these
days?
Over at Ruby's with the rest
of his old dock buddies.
'Probably already
got his drunk on.'
And he likes cops
even less than Marines.
We'll keep that in mind.
- Thanks, Sue.
- Okay.
Hey.
He tries to throw a
bottle
at you, like he did
me..
We'll return the favor.
Boss, think I made
some headway
on the oil drum
Tully was found in.
What do you got?
List of about 50 entities
that could've dumped there.
Of the most interest,
the Navy and the shipyard.
Oil drum could
have
come off a ship.
- Yep.
- Check naval base records.
When I served, the military
kept
a paper trail a mile long
for every belt
buckle,
bullet and mess
kit.
Oh, joy.
Oh! So where's
this old dock
worker?
I hear he took a swing
at the cop that picked him
up.
Ray Lisi? Scotty's got him
in the box now.
(Scotty)
'I'm gonna make you
pick up after yourself,
Ray.'
You mind telling me
what this is all about,
junior?
Sure, pops.
Either you tell me about
the last time
you saw Jimmy Tully..
...or I lock you up
for taking a swing at that
cop.
Jimmy who?
We got an eyewitness
says you flashed a gun at him.
Oh, that's interesting.
It gets better, see,
'cause this Marine got shot.
Well, isn't that
what they sign up
for?
Pulled your sheet.
'You beat a guy
with a .38'
'not long after
Tully disappeared.'
It's the same caliber
killed Tully.
Guy was a scab.
He kept falling on my
gun.
Lucky I didn't
pull the
trigger.
Well, you couldn't beat
Tully,
so you shot him.
Keep trawling.
I'm done with you, Ray.
Either you talk or a few
friends
of that cop you swung at
are gonna come in here
and tuck you in for the
night.
Lucky bastard was
doing
just fine when I left
him.
(Nora)
'Greatest city in the
world.'
(Jimmy)
'A lot of guys on
the ship from Philly.'
'Maybe I'll make it
my home someday, too.'
Oh, it's already 10 o'clock.
I'm sorry, I'm keeping you
with your big
first day tomorrow.
My friend dragged me
along with her
and I wasn't expecting
to meet someone like
you.
I know, me neither.
We got those clumsy sailors
to thank for that.
You probably would've found some
other pretty girl to dance with.
But I found you.
What's the matter?
Aren't you afraid
of going over
there?
Marines aren't supposed
to show fear.
Save the slogans
for your buddies.
I'm serious, Jimmy.
Look, any guy who tells you
he isn't afraid is a liar.
'My father served,
and so did his father.'
It's what the men
in my family do.
Hey.
What if I lose you,
as soon as I found you?
I still owe you
that dance, remember?
Dance marathon?
Now you're talking.
Marine and fastest typist
in the steno pool?
We'll be the couple to beat.
- Nora!
- What is it with this guy?
He works down at the docks with
my father. I can handle him.
If he lays one finger on you,
I'm gonna clean his clock.
What're you doing, Ray?
This guy's not gonna
be here for you like I
am.
I appreciate you
looking out for me
but you need to go home.
Please. Do it for me.
Oh, I never been much
for that lovey-dovey
crud
but...I think
she was real
smitten.
You don't strike me
as the observant type, Ray.
I did not shoot that jarhead.
Well, he embarrassed you
in front of your girl.
She wasn't my girl.
The most she ever did
was let me buy her a drink.
Better hope
she backs that up.
(Lilly)
'Your husband?'
I lost him ten years ago.
Ben was a good man.
He was there for me.
Don't make men
like they used to.
Was Tully around
when you started dating Ben?
I know what you're thinking,
but I wasn't that kind of
girl.
I met Ben a year later.
A friend set us up.
- That's my son, Peter.
- Handsome.
I thought you wanted
to ask me about Jimmy Tully.
A guy named Ray Lisi
said you were with Jimmy
the night he disappeared.
We met at the Gunwale.
Then hit a dance marathon.
"Marine and fastest typist
in the steno pool."
'That's what he said.'
- What about after that?
- After that?
I would've given him my heart
but fate wouldn't have it.
What?
Just seeing if your boyfriend
Ray comes out to stop me.
Stop you from what?
Smuggling you
on the ship.
'Come on, I'll buy
you a soda.'
Thank you.
I sure am gonna
miss you.
You'll forget what I look like
minute the ship leaves port.
Not if you give me
a photo of
yourself.
Do I look like
the kind of girl
who carries photos
of herself around?
Come on, let's fix that.
[laughs]
Come on. Come on.
You're supposed to
look at the camera.
What if
I don't want to?
We're going to have
to keep doing this
until you get it right.
Or we could do this.
Private First
Class Tully?
(Jimmy)
'Yes?'
Need to come with us.
Jimmy? Jimmy?
What's happening?
I don't know.
I'll find you.
That was the last time
I saw him.
What did shore
patrol
want with Tully?
I don't know.
He never came back.
Anything else you
remember,
give us a call.
Thank you for letting me know
what happened to him.
'I only knew Jimmy
for a few hours'
but I never forgot him.
Hey, John,
naval clerk dug up
the ship's
disciplinary log book.
Logbook have an entry
of sending out shore
patrol?
Yeah, sent to question Tully's
entire platoon.
Log entry said
they were looking
for a Private First Class
Lenny Snow suspected of taking
a Navy officer's
pearl-handled .38 revolver.
Could be our
murder weapon.
Gun was never recovered.
Snow spent the crossing
to the Korean Peninsula
below decks
in the ship's
brig.
Well, let's put him
in our box
see what he's got to say
about this gun.
Had a look
at your service record.
'Navy Cross, Bronze Star.'
'That's some tour of duty.'
I prefer not
to talk about it.
- Why not?
- Did you serve, detective?
Navy.
- Vietnam?
- River Rat unit.
Then you know a lot
of good men never made it back.
'Doesn't seem right to be
making a fuss over a bunch'
of medals and ribbons.
I did what I had to do.
Others gave more.
You straightened yourself out
after shore leave, though.
(Lenny)
'I'll admit I wasn't the most
squared-away Marine in my
unit.'
But I didn't take
that officer's weapon.
Then why'd shore patrol
think you did?
Oh, I got blamed for everything.
Didn't help that Sergeant
Chaney
had it in for me.
Well, you see Tully
that night on shore leave?
Yeah.
Tried to help me out of the
pickle I was in with that
gun.
(Jimmy)
'Where the hell
have you been?'
I been looking
all over town for you.
- I'm in trouble.
- 'Yeah, I know.'
Shore patrol gave me
the third degree about you.
I didn't take that revolver.
You gotta believe me.
Then you better start
convincing me.
'Cause I just left
the girl of my dreams.
I don't know what happened.
Sergeant Chaney
had Max and me
on police detail
in officer quarters.
You and Max?
You can ask him.
I never even
saw the weapon.
- Scout's honor.
- You see Max go inside?
He wanted to see how squared
away an officer kept his rack.
'You know Max.
He was just jokin' around.'
- You think Max took it?
- If you didn't.
What's it matter?
Huh?
Sarge is right,
I'll never be a good Marine.
You got more guts
than half of these guys.
'I don't care
what sarge says.'
How you figure that?
You lied about your age
to get into the Corps.
I know a lot of guys who lied
so they wouldn't have to
serve.
Why are you so nice
to me, Tully? Huh?
You remind me
of my kid brother, I
guess.
- Memphis?
- Only place I could
think of.
If you run now,
you'll never stop
running.
- I don't know, Tully.
- I'm gonna find Max.
I'm gonna make this right.
So you can
either
get on that bus
or you can go
back
to the ship
'you can look Sergeant Chaney
in the eyes'
and you can
tell him the truth.
'The choice is yours.'
Hardest thing I ever did..
...not getting on that bus.
Shore patrol was waiting
threw me right
in the brig.
So, when'd you hear
Tully went AWOL?
Oh, that's halfway to Korea,
one of the guards told me.
It didn't make
a lot of sense, though.
You know if Tully found Max
that night?
I don't know.
But if Tully gave you
his word on something..
...pretty much meant
it was gonna happen.
He wasn't just
an outstanding Marine..
...he was like
a brother to me.
"Semper Fi."
Spic and Span time, Max.
You lied to us
about seeing Tully.
I said I didn't remember.
That amnesia extend to
taking
that officer's gun?
You were going to let Snow
swing for that.
Only Tully wasn't going
to let that happen.
(Lilly)
'He was going
to turn you in'
so you shot him
before
he had the chance.
- You got it all wrong.
- You took that officer's
gun.
And that's conduct
unbecoming the Corps.
So is shooting a guy who was
just trying to help a friend.
I'm guilty
of a lot of
things
being a bad Marine
is just one of 'em.
But you can't say
the same about
Tully.
He was some
top-shelf
stuff.
(Max)
'Hey, it's punchy!'
Give me the weapon, Max.
Don't know what
you're
talking about.
Cut the crap.
Snow told me.
Ah. You gonna rat me out?
Of course not.
But I need it back.
It was a joke..
...to mess
with Lieutenant
Putnam.
Make him think he lost
his precious revolver.
A joke?
You know, Snow's thinkin'
about going AWOL
because he can't face
Sergeant Chaney.
That sound funny
to you?
Best thing for our platoon
would
be for that guy to wash out.
You're wrong about him.
That guy's a
walking
mortar magnet.
Don't waste your last
hours
of shore leave on Snow.
Just give me the weapon, Max.
I can't. I pawned it.
How do you think
I met these friendly
ladies?
60 bucks?
How am I supposed
to get that kind of money?
- How much you got?
- Ten.
I was gonna use it to buy
something special for Nora.
Don't worry.
Hi. I'll chip in.
I'm not proud of what I did
but I never saw Tully
with that pistol.
So he doesn't show
for the boat ride to Korea
and you don't say a word?
I thought maybe he took off
with that girl
he was so hot
to get back to.
It's what I'd have done.
Back when I could run.
We've got a gun, but no one
who saw Tully with it.
So Tully leaves Max and
what,
gets the gun out of hock?
But he'd need money
for that.
I think I know
where he got
it.
Tully did find
Nora
later that night.
How do you figure?
Well, something
wasn't
sitting right
so I checked into Ben
Conlin,
Nora's late husband.
- The Navy officer.
- Yeah.
Thought if I
could put him
and Tully in town
at the same time..
But he was stationed
in Japan.
Yeah, a dead end
till I found
this.
Ben Conlin adopted Nora
Lee's
three month old baby boy.
A month after
they got married.
Birth certificate lists
the father as "unknown."
Yeah.
Math points to Tully
and their romance didn't end
in that photo booth.
1952, tough time
to be an unwed
mother.
The looks you
must've
gotten.
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Come on, Nora, you didn't meet
Ben till after Peter was born.
Peter...is Tully's son.
'Got the records
to prove it.'
I've never told anyone.
Not even Peter.
You lied about
seeing Tully again.
Makes it hard for me to
believe
anything you say now.
What choice did I have?
So I start thinking,
maybe Tully does go AWOL
then he finds out you're
pregnant and wants to leave
you.
No. You can check.
I wrote letters, filed
paternity
requests with the VA.
I didn't know
where Jimmy was,
either.
Then tell me what happened.
I waited all night
for him to come
back
staring out my
window,
praying to God.
And then, there he was.
Nora.
Oh, I never thought
I'd see you again.
What's bothering you, Jimmy?
Nothing. It's just..
I'm here.
What happened
with shore patrol? Spill.
I just want to make the most
of our last hours together.
Just let me
look at you.
You gotta be
straight with me.
Something's eating at you.
They're looking
for a friend of
mine.
A friend who didn't do
what they're saying he
did.
And, uh,
I tried to help him.
- I couldn't.
- Why couldn't you?
Because I don't have the
money
to prove he's innocent.
And if you had
the money
you could use it
to help your friend?
Look, if I help him..
...and he dies over there..
You don't know
the future.
You can only follow your gut
like you did following me
into that bar and..
...pestering me
for a dance.
I can be pretty
persistent
when I need to be.
What is this?
My mother wore it on her
wedding
day. It's gotta be worth more
than whatever's behind
that pawn ticket.
Nora, I can't--
I don't wanna hear
another word.
Look, it's not worth a lot
but, it's been in my
family
for a long time.
- Will you keep this for me?
- Yes.
I'll be waiting for you at
the docks, before we push
off.
Wait, wait.
I waited by the docks to
see
him one last time but..
Tully didn't leave you..
...he was taken from you.
He was a special man.
One look and I knew
what he was made of.
I want his family
to have this.
This will mean a lot
to his kid brother, Steve.
Detective Rush..
...Jimmy was
the love of my
life.
Thank you for
giving
that back to me.
So, Tully uses Nora's necklace
to get the gun out of hock.
And Tully was
a hard
charger.
Goes back to the
ship,
puts the weapon
back in Putnam's
locker
or returns it
to his platoon sergeant.
Tough play, either way.
He digs, he scores.
You were right, boss.
Military doesn't buy a tin
of beans or toss a grenade
unless there's a paper trail.
De-requisition order
to dispose
of six steel oil drums
of hazardous material
Pronto.
September ninth.
Date matches up.
Stuff like that
doesn't
get on or off a
ship
without the engine
room knowing about
it.
Hmm. "Mean Gene" Karnow
was a machinist mate.
Throw this wrench at
him,
see how he answers.
This supposed
to mean something?
(Nick)
Well, the date's of
interest.
Especially seeing as how
Tully's
body was found in an oil drum.
Right, the Marine.
You remember
this order?
Yeah, I come back
from, uh, shore leave
and there's, uh, a Marine
sergeant screaming at me
to get rid of the waste
oil drums ASAP.
I tell him I don't take
orders
from a jarhead.
Navy ship, Navy engine room.
You refused
to dump those drums?
Yeah, and in about ten minutes
my chief comes down
and chews me out
so I go ahead
and get rid of 'em.
This Marine sergeant,
his name by any chance Chaney?
Yeah, that's him.
Thought he was all hard
but then we get out
to rough seas
he's out back puking
his guts out over the rail.
Chaney.
Took a look at your medical
and service record books,
Sergeant Chaney.
Spent most of your second tour
in the field hospitals.
Significant battle fatigue?
You ask me down here to
question my service record?
[chuckling]
You're way out
of your depth, son.
Something must have been
eating at you real bad
'cause you never saw any action
during your second tour.
You want to ask me
something about Tully, ask it
but I will not sit
here and have you question
my service to this country.
This interview is over.
If you want, we can
cuff
you to that chair.
I had an officer like you,
a ball-busting son of a
bitch.
'I hated that bastard.'
But when it was said and done
he just wanted
what was best for his men.
- He had a code.
- Best ones do.
Is that why you were trying
to wash out PFC Snow?
What the hell does
this have to do with Snow?
Answer the question!
Snow didn't belong
in the Marines!
And it was your job
to sort men like him.
Snow was going
to fill up his boots
the very minute
he saw those Chinamen
'coming at
us in waves.'
Oh, with all due respect, sir
you were wrong
about Snow, dead wrong.
He was 15 years old.
'He wanted to be a Marine
so bad he lied about his
age.'
You buried him
behind a desk
and he still made it
to the front line.
Awarded the Bronze Star
and Navy Cross.
That's a lot of bull.
Snow did no such
thing.
Account of Private First
Class
Lenny Snow's
heroic actions during battle.
While you were cooling
your heels in a field
hospital
this is what
a brave Marine was doing.
"During a sudden enemy ambush
"Private First Class Snow
unhesitatingly left his
foxhole'
"moved through withering fire,
and employing his rifle
"inflicted numerous casualties.
"His actions saved the lives
of his fellow Marines."
I will not listen to this.
Snow was going to get us all
killed over there.
I should know.
I've seen it before.
Lenny Snow exemplified
the Marine Corps.
Negative!
Then just when you think
you got Snow going AWOL
Tully shows up
to plead his
case
says he knows
Lenny didn't take that gun.
- Tully was wrong.
- Not about Snow.
He wasn't and you know it.
You're still a
Marine.
Act like one.
Son of a bitch
wouldn't back down.
He threatened
to pull rank on me.
On me!
This better be good, Tully.
Getting me out of the rack
at this time of night.
Sir.
PFC Snow did not take
Lieutenant
Putnam's revolver, sir.
- Where did you get this,
Tully?
- I cannot say, sir.
I didn't copy that.
You will give me that weapon.
That is an order.
Sir, I wish only to
clear
Private Snow's name.
PFC Snow is not worthy
of being a Marine.
Snow is a coward and a thief
and will not tarnish
the Marine Corps
with his presence.
With all due
respect
to Sergeant Chaney
PFC Snow is neither
a coward nor a
thief.
You have no idea
what it takes to be a Marine.
PFC Snow believes you are
trying to wash him out,
sir
something that is
against
Marine Corps tradition.
Do not lecture me
about tradition!
Now, you will stand down
and give me that weapon.
I can't do that, sir.
You are disobeying orders,
PFC Tully!
You will give me
that weapon
and you will tell me
where PFC Snow is
or I will see to it that
your sorry butt is booted back
to whatever ungrateful hole
you crawled out of.
Sergeant, I am prepared
to go to Captain
Ryan
and tell him the
truth.
The truth?
And what truth is that?
That you wish
to pin the
theft
of an officer's
weapon
on an innocent man.
You will do no such thing.
'Cause I decide which Marines
remain in this platoon.
Me and only me.
- Sir, I can't let you do
that.
- You..
Sergeant, please.